.github/skills/railway-service-management/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: railway-service-management
description: Specialized knowledge for managing multi-environment Railway deployments, including development branch previews, production services, and full lifecycle management. Use this when setting up Railway infrastructure, configuring multi-environment workflows, or managing Railway deployments.
---

# Railway Service Management

This skill provides comprehensive guidance for managing applications on Railway.app with multi-environment support. All detailed reference documentation is included in the `reference/` folder.

## Overview

Railway is a modern platform-as-a-service (PaaS) that simplifies application deployment and infrastructure management. This skill focuses on:

- **Multi-Environment Architecture** for dev/staging/production workflows
- **Automated Deployments** triggered by GitHub branches
- **PR Environments** - Native automatic ephemeral environments for pull requests
- **Service Management** including databases, Redis, and application services
- **Environment Configuration** with secrets and variables
- **Secret Management** with GitHub Secrets and Railway variables
- **Monitoring & Logging** for production operations
- **Cost Optimization** strategies for efficient resource usage
- **Railway MCP Server** - AI-powered Railway management tools for GitHub Copilot Workspace

### Key Railway Concepts

**Projects**: Top-level containers that hold all your environments and services
**Environments**: Isolated deployment contexts (production, staging, development)
**Services**: Individual deployable units (your app, databases, Redis, etc.)
**Deployments**: Immutable builds of your service at a specific point in time

### Base URLs
- Dashboard: https://railway.app/dashboard
- CLI Documentation: https://docs.railway.app/reference/cli
- API Reference: https://docs.railway.app/reference/api-reference
- MCP Server: https://github.com/railwayapp/railway-mcp-server

## Reference Documentation

**Load these reference documents as needed:**

- [🏗️ Railway Platform Fundamentals](./reference/platform_fundamentals.md) - Core concepts, project structure, and Railway architecture
- [🌍 Multi-Environment Architecture](./reference/multi_environment_architecture.md) - Strategies for dev/staging/prod setup with branch-based deployments
- [🚀 Deployment Workflows](./reference/deployment_workflows.md) - Automated deployments, GitHub integration, and CI/CD patterns
- [🔀 PR Environments](./reference/pr_environments.md) - Railway's native PR Environments feature for automatic PR deployments
- [⚙️ Configuration Management](./reference/configuration_management.md) - Environment variables, secrets, and configuration strategies including GitHub Secrets integration
- [💾 Database & Services](./reference/database_services.md) - PostgreSQL, Redis, and service configuration
- [📊 Monitoring & Logging](./reference/monitoring_logging.md) - Application observability, logs, and metrics
- [💰 Cost Optimization](./reference/cost_optimization.md) - Resource management and billing optimization
- [🔧 Railway CLI & Scripts](./reference/cli_scripts.md) - Command-line tools, Railway MCP Server, and automation scripts
- [🔐 Secrets Management](./reference/secrets_management.md) - GitHub Secrets, Railway variables, and secure credential handling

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

```bash
# Install Railway CLI
npm i -g @railway/cli

# Login to Railway
railway login

# Link to existing project (or create new)
railway link
```

### Multi-Environment Setup Pattern

```bash
# Create project structure
railway init

# Set up environments
# - production: Connected to 'main' branch
# - pr-*: Ephemeral environments for pull requests (automatic via Railway)

# Configure environment variables
railway variables set KEY=value -e production

# Configure shared variables (for PR environments to inherit)
# Note: Shared variable type must be set via Railway Dashboard
```

## Architecture Patterns

### Branch-to-Environment Mapping

**Current Architecture:**
- `main` branch → `production` environment (stable, customer-facing)
- Pull requests → **Railway PR Environments** (automatic, ephemeral)

**Previously Used (Now Deprecated):**
- ~~`develop` branch → `staging` environment~~
- ~~`feature/*` branches → custom ephemeral environments~~

### Railway PR Environments

Railway's native PR Environments feature automatically creates ephemeral environments for pull requests:

**Key Features:**
- ✓ **Automatic creation** when PR is opened
- ✓ **Automatic deployment** on PR updates
- ✓ **Automatic destruction** when PR is closed/merged
- ✓ **Zero configuration** after initial setup
- ✓ **GitHub integration** with status checks
- ✓ **Shared Variables** - Can reference production's shared variables
- ✓ **Cost-effective** - only pay while PR is open

**Setup:**
```bash
# Enable in Railway Dashboard:
# Settings → GitHub → PR Environments → Enable
# - Base Environment: staging
# - Auto-Deploy: ✓
# - Auto-Destroy: ✓
# - Target Branches: main, develop
```

**Access PR Environment:**
```bash
# Automatic URL pattern
https://yoto-smart-stream-pr-{number}.up.railway.app

# Via CLI
railway status -e pr-123
railway logs -e pr-123
```

**See [PR Environments Reference](./reference/pr_environments.md) for complete documentation.**

### Service Architecture

```yaml
# Example: Web application with database
services:
  web:
    # Your FastAPI/Flask/Express application
    start_command: uvicorn main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port $PORT
    healthcheck: /health
    
  postgres:
    # PostgreSQL database
    plugin: postgresql
    
  redis:
    # Redis for caching/sessions
    plugin: redis
```

## Secret Management Strategy

### GitHub Secrets (for CI/CD)

Store secrets in GitHub that are needed during CI/CD workflows:

```bash
# Add secrets via GitHub UI:
# Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions → New repository secret

# Required secrets for this project:
RAILWAY_TOKEN_PROD     # Railway API token for production deployments
RAILWAY_TOKEN_STAGING  # Railway API token for staging deployments
RAILWAY_TOKEN_DEV      # Railway API token for development deployments
YOTO_CLIENT_ID         # Yoto API client ID (from https://yoto.dev/)
```

**Obtaining Yoto Client ID:**
1. Go to https://yoto.dev/get-started/start-here/
2. Register application:
   - Type: Server-side / CLI Application
   - Grant Type: Device Code (OAuth 2.0 Device Authorization Grant)
   - Callback URLs: `http://localhost/oauth/callback` (placeholder - not used with Device Flow)
   - Logout URLs: `http://localhost/logout` (placeholder - not used)
3. Save your Client ID

**Note:** Yoto uses OAuth2 Device Flow which doesn't require callback/logout URLs. The registration form may ask for them, but use localhost placeholders - they won't be called. Device Flow authentication doesn't redirect to your application.
```

## Development Workflow: CPWTR

**CPWTR** stands for: **Commit, Push, Wait, Test, Repeat**

This is the standard development cycle when working with Railway deployments:

```bash
# 0. UPDATE VERSION - Bump the version in config.py
# Edit yoto_smart_stream/config.py and update app_version
# Example: app_version: str = "0.2.1"

# 1. COMMIT - Stage and commit your changes (including version bump)
git add .
git commit -m "Add feature X - bump to v0.2.1"

# 2. PUSH - Push to GitHub
git push origin feature-branch

# 3. WAIT - Wait for Railway to build and deploy
# Railway automatically deploys when:
# - PR is opened (PR Environments)
# - Commits are pushed to main (Production)
# - Commits are pushed to tracked branches
# Use MCP server to check deployment status if available

# 4. TEST - Test the deployed changes
curl https://yoto-smart-stream-pr-{number}.up.railway.app/health
# Verify version in response: "version": "0.2.1"
# Or access via browser, test API endpoints, etc.

# 5. REPEAT - Make adjustments and start again
# If tests fail, fix code locally and repeat: version → commit → push → wait → test
```

**Tips for efficient CPWTR:**
- Monitor deployments in real-time: `railway logs --follow`
- Check deployment status: `railway deployments list --json`
- Test locally before pushing when possible
- Use Railway's healthcheck endpoint to verify deployment success
- Keep PR commits focused to reduce test cycles

### Railway Environment Variables

Set environment-specific variables in Railway:

```bash
# Production environment (via Railway CLI or GitHub Actions)
railway variables set YOTO_CLIENT_ID="your_client_id" -e production
railway variables set DATABASE_URL='${{Postgres.DATABASE_URL}}' -e production

# In GitHub Actions: use secrets syntax
# railway variables set YOTO_CLIENT_ID="${{ secrets.YOTO_CLIENT_ID }}" -e production

# Staging environment
railway variables set YOTO_CLIENT_ID="your_client_id" -e staging
railway variables set DEBUG=true -e staging
```

### Variable Hierarchy

1. **GitHub Secrets** - For CI/CD automation (RAILWAY_TOKEN, YOTO_CLIENT_ID)
2. **Railway Shared Variables** - Common across environments (LOG_LEVEL, REGION)
3. **Railway Environment Variables** - Per environment (DATABASE_URL, DEBUG)
4. **Railway Service Variables** - Per service in environment (PORT, WORKERS)

## Environment Configuration Strategy

### Development Workflow

```bash
# Local development - use .env file (never commit)
YOTO_CLIENT_ID=dev_client_id
YOTO_CLIENT_SECRET=dev_secret

# GitHub Actions - access GitHub Secrets
${{ secrets.YOTO_CLIENT_ID }}

# Railway deployment - use Railway variables
railway variables get YOTO_CLIENT_ID -e production
```

### Accessing Secrets in Code

```python
# main.py - FastAPI application
import os

# Railway automatically loads environment variables
YOTO_CLIENT_ID = os.getenv("YOTO_CLIENT_ID")
YOTO_CLIENT_SECRET = os.getenv("YOTO_CLIENT_SECRET")
DATABASE_URL = os.getenv("DATABASE_URL")

if not YOTO_CLIENT_ID:
    raise ValueError("YOTO_CLIENT_ID environment variable is required")
```

## Deployment Workflow

### Automated Deployments

1. **Commit to branch** → Railway detects change
2. **Build starts** → Docker build or Nixpacks detection
3. **Deploy** → New deployment goes live
4. **Health check** → Railway verifies service is healthy
5. **Rollback available** → Previous deployment kept for quick rollback

### Manual Deployments

```bash
# Deploy current directory to specific environment
railway up -e production

# Deploy with specific service
railway up -s web -e staging

# Redeploy last successful build
railway redeploy -e production
```

## Database Management

### PostgreSQL Setup

```bash
# Add PostgreSQL to project
railway add --plugin postgresql

# Access database credentials
railway variables -e production | grep DATABASE_URL

# Connect to database
railway connect postgres -e production

# Run migrations
railway run -e production python manage.py migrate
```

### Backup Strategy

- Railway provides automatic daily backups for databases
- For critical production data, implement application-level backups
- Use `pg_dump` for manual backups before major migrations

## Monitoring & Observability

### Built-in Features

- **Logs**: Real-time log streaming via dashboard or CLI
- **Metrics**: CPU, memory, network usage per service
- **Deployments**: History of all deployments with rollback capability

### Log Access

```bash
# Stream logs from production
railway logs -e production

# Follow logs with filter
railway logs -e production --filter "ERROR"

# View logs for specific service
railway logs -s web -e production
```

## Best Practices

### ✅ DO:

- Store sensitive credentials in GitHub Secrets
- Use environment-specific configurations in Railway
- Implement health check endpoints
- Set up automatic deployments for main branches
- Use Railway's reference variables (`${{Postgres.DATABASE_URL}}`)
- Monitor deployment logs after each deploy
- Set resource limits appropriately
- Use Railway CLI for automation scripts
- Document environment setup in repository
- Rotate secrets regularly

### ❌ DON'T:

- Commit secrets to version control (use .env.example as template)
- Use production credentials in development
- Skip health check endpoints
- Deploy directly to production without staging
- Ignore deployment failures
- Over-provision resources unnecessarily
- Hardcode URLs or credentials
- Share production database between environments
- Store secrets in code comments or documentation

## Cost Optimization

### Resource Management

1. **Right-size your services** - Start small, scale based on metrics
2. **Use development environments wisely** - Sleep/destroy unused environments
3. **Leverage free tier** - Railway provides $5/month free credits
4. **Monitor usage** - Set up billing alerts
5. **Clean up old deployments** - Remove unused services and environments

### Scaling Strategy

```bash
# Horizontal scaling (multiple replicas)
railway scale replicas=3 -s web -e production

# Vertical scaling (increase resources)
# Adjust via Railway dashboard or railway.json
```

## Python/FastAPI Specific Configuration

### Recommended Setup

```python
# main.py - FastAPI application
from fastapi import FastAPI
import os

app = FastAPI()

# Railway provides PORT environment variable
PORT = int(os.getenv("PORT", 8000))

@app.get("/health")
async def health_check():
    """Health check endpoint for Railway"""
    return {"status": "healthy"}

if __name__ == "__main__":
    import uvicorn
    uvicorn.run(app, host="0.0.0.0", port=PORT)
```

### Deployment Configuration

```toml
# railway.toml (optional, but recommended)
[build]
builder = "NIXPACKS"
buildCommand = "pip install -r requirements.txt"

[deploy]
startCommand = "uvicorn main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port $PORT"
healthcheckPath = "/health"
healthcheckTimeout = 100
restartPolicyType = "ON_FAILURE"
restartPolicyMaxRetries = 10
```

## Integration with CI/CD

### GitHub Actions Integration

```yaml
# .github/workflows/deploy.yml
name: Deploy to Railway

on:
  push:
    branches: [main, develop]
  pull_request:
    branches: [main]

jobs:
  deploy:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3
      
      - name: Install Railway CLI
        run: npm i -g @railway/cli
        
      - name: Deploy to Railway
        run: railway up -e ${{ github.ref == 'refs/heads/main' && 'production' || 'staging' }}
        env:
          RAILWAY_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.RAILWAY_TOKEN }}
          
      - name: Set Railway Variables
        run: |
          railway variables set YOTO_CLIENT_ID="${{ secrets.YOTO_CLIENT_ID }}" -e production
          railway variables set YOTO_CLIENT_SECRET="${{ secrets.YOTO_CLIENT_SECRET }}" -e production
        env:
          RAILWAY_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.RAILWAY_TOKEN }}
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**Deployment Fails**
- Check build logs: `railway logs -e production`
- Verify Python version compatibility
- Ensure all dependencies in requirements.txt

**Database Connection Issues**
- Verify DATABASE_URL variable is set
- Check database service is running
- Confirm network connectivity between services

**Environment Variables Not Loading**
- Verify variables are set in correct environment
- Check for typos in variable names
- Ensure service is redeployed after variable changes

**Secrets Not Accessible**
- Verify GitHub Secrets are created in repository settings
- Check workflow has correct permissions
- Ensure Railway variables are synced from GitHub

**High Costs**
- Review resource usage in dashboard
- Scale down or remove unused environments
- Check for runaway processes or memory leaks

## Security Considerations

1. **Never commit credentials** - Use GitHub Secrets and Railway variables
2. **Rotate secrets regularly** - Especially API keys and tokens (YOTO_CLIENT_ID)
3. **Use least privilege** - Limit access to production environments
4. **Enable 2FA** - For Railway and GitHub account access
5. **Audit access** - Review team member permissions periodically
6. **Network security** - Use private networking for service-to-service communication
7. **Backup regularly** - Especially before major changes
8. **Separate secrets** - Use different credentials for dev/staging/production when possible

## Team Workflow

### Development Process

1. **Create feature branch** → Automatic PR environment spins up
2. **Develop & test** → Use PR environment for testing (with dev credentials)
3. **Merge to develop** → Deploys to staging environment
4. **QA & validation** → Test on staging (with staging credentials)
5. **Merge to main** → Deploys to production (with production credentials)
6. **Monitor** → Watch logs and metrics

### Environment Lifecycle

```bash
# Development branches
feature/add-auth → pr-123 environment (auto-created)
feature/new-ui → pr-124 environment (auto-created)

# Long-lived branches
develop → staging environment (persistent)
main → production environment (persistent)

# Cleanup
# PR environments destroyed after merge/close
# Manual cleanup: railway down -e pr-123
```

## Resources

- **Railway Documentation**: https://docs.railway.app/
- **Railway Templates**: https://railway.app/templates
- **Railway Discord**: https://discord.gg/railway
- **Railway Blog**: https://blog.railway.app/
- **Railway Status**: https://status.railway.app/
- **Railway CLI**: https://docs.railway.app/reference/cli
- **GitHub Secrets**: https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets

## Migration Guides

### From Heroku to Railway

- Railway offers similar workflow with better DX
- Environment variables map 1:1
- Database migration via `pg_dump` and `pg_restore`
- Update deployment scripts to use Railway CLI

### From Docker Compose to Railway

- Convert services to Railway services
- Map environment variables
- Set up service dependencies
- Configure networking

---

**When managing Railway deployments:**
1. Review the relevant reference documentation in the `reference/` folder
2. Set up GitHub Secrets for CI/CD automation (RAILWAY_TOKEN, YOTO_CLIENT_ID)
3. Follow the multi-environment patterns and best practices
4. Use Railway CLI for automation
5. Monitor deployments and costs regularly
6. Document your setup for team members

Commit message:

Update CPWTR WAIT step with deployment troubleshooting guidance

.github/skills/railway-service-management/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: railway-service-management
description: Specialized knowledge for managing multi-environment Railway deployments, including development branch previews, production services, and full lifecycle management. Use this when setting up Railway infrastructure, configuring multi-environment workflows, or managing Railway deployments.
---

# Railway Service Management

This skill provides comprehensive guidance for managing applications on Railway.app with multi-environment support. All detailed reference documentation is included in the `reference/` folder.

## Overview

Railway is a modern platform-as-a-service (PaaS) that simplifies application deployment and infrastructure management. This skill focuses on:

- **Multi-Environment Architecture** for dev/staging/production workflows
- **Automated Deployments** triggered by GitHub branches
- **PR Environments** - Native automatic ephemeral environments for pull requests
- **Service Management** including databases, Redis, and application services
- **Environment Configuration** with secrets and variables
- **Secret Management** with GitHub Secrets and Railway variables
- **Monitoring & Logging** for production operations
- **Cost Optimization** strategies for efficient resource usage
- **Railway MCP Server** - AI-powered Railway management tools for GitHub Copilot Workspace

### Key Railway Concepts

**Projects**: Top-level containers that hold all your environments and services
**Environments**: Isolated deployment contexts (production, staging, development)
**Services**: Individual deployable units (your app, databases, Redis, etc.)
**Deployments**: Immutable builds of your service at a specific point in time

### Base URLs
- Dashboard: https://railway.app/dashboard
- CLI Documentation: https://docs.railway.app/reference/cli
- API Reference: https://docs.railway.app/reference/api-reference
- MCP Server: https://github.com/railwayapp/railway-mcp-server

## Reference Documentation

**Load these reference documents as needed:**

- [🏗️ Railway Platform Fundamentals](./reference/platform_fundamentals.md) - Core concepts, project structure, and Railway architecture
- [🌍 Multi-Environment Architecture](./reference/multi_environment_architecture.md) - Strategies for dev/staging/prod setup with branch-based deployments
- [🚀 Deployment Workflows](./reference/deployment_workflows.md) - Automated deployments, GitHub integration, and CI/CD patterns
- [🔀 PR Environments](./reference/pr_environments.md) - Railway's native PR Environments feature for automatic PR deployments
- [⚙️ Configuration Management](./reference/configuration_management.md) - Environment variables, secrets, and configuration strategies including GitHub Secrets integration
- [💾 Database & Services](./reference/database_services.md) - PostgreSQL, Redis, and service configuration
- [📊 Monitoring & Logging](./reference/monitoring_logging.md) - Application observability, logs, and metrics
- [💰 Cost Optimization](./reference/cost_optimization.md) - Resource management and billing optimization
- [🔧 Railway CLI & Scripts](./reference/cli_scripts.md) - Command-line tools, Railway MCP Server, and automation scripts
- [🔐 Secrets Management](./reference/secrets_management.md) - GitHub Secrets, Railway variables, and secure credential handling

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

```bash
# Install Railway CLI
npm i -g @railway/cli

# Login to Railway
railway login

# Link to existing project (or create new)
railway link
```

### Multi-Environment Setup Pattern

```bash
# Create project structure
railway init

# Set up environments
# - production: Connected to 'main' branch
# - pr-*: Ephemeral environments for pull requests (automatic via Railway)

# Configure environment variables
railway variables set KEY=value -e production

# Configure shared variables (for PR environments to inherit)
# Note: Shared variable type must be set via Railway Dashboard
```

## Architecture Patterns

### Branch-to-Environment Mapping

**Current Architecture:**
- `main` branch → `production` environment (stable, customer-facing)
- Pull requests → **Railway PR Environments** (automatic, ephemeral)

**Previously Used (Now Deprecated):**
- ~~`develop` branch → `staging` environment~~
- ~~`feature/*` branches → custom ephemeral environments~~

### Railway PR Environments

Railway's native PR Environments feature automatically creates ephemeral environments for pull requests:

**Key Features:**
- ✓ **Automatic creation** when PR is opened
- ✓ **Automatic deployment** on PR updates
- ✓ **Automatic destruction** when PR is closed/merged
- ✓ **Zero configuration** after initial setup
- ✓ **GitHub integration** with status checks
- ✓ **Shared Variables** - Can reference production's shared variables
- ✓ **Cost-effective** - only pay while PR is open

**Setup:**
```bash
# Enable in Railway Dashboard:
# Settings → GitHub → PR Environments → Enable
# - Base Environment: staging
# - Auto-Deploy: ✓
# - Auto-Destroy: ✓
# - Target Branches: main, develop
```

**Access PR Environment:**
```bash
# Automatic URL pattern
https://yoto-smart-stream-pr-{number}.up.railway.app

# Via CLI
railway status -e pr-123
railway logs -e pr-123
```

**See [PR Environments Reference](./reference/pr_environments.md) for complete documentation.**

### Service Architecture

```yaml
# Example: Web application with database
services:
  web:
    # Your FastAPI/Flask/Express application
    start_command: uvicorn main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port $PORT
    healthcheck: /health
    
  postgres:
    # PostgreSQL database
    plugin: postgresql
    
  redis:
    # Redis for caching/sessions
    plugin: redis
```

## Secret Management Strategy

### GitHub Secrets (for CI/CD)

Store secrets in GitHub that are needed during CI/CD workflows:

```bash
# Add secrets via GitHub UI:
# Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions → New repository secret

# Required secrets for this project:
RAILWAY_TOKEN_PROD     # Railway API token for production deployments
RAILWAY_TOKEN_STAGING  # Railway API token for staging deployments
RAILWAY_TOKEN_DEV      # Railway API token for development deployments
YOTO_CLIENT_ID         # Yoto API client ID (from https://yoto.dev/)
```

**Obtaining Yoto Client ID:**
1. Go to https://yoto.dev/get-started/start-here/
2. Register application:
   - Type: Server-side / CLI Application
   - Grant Type: Device Code (OAuth 2.0 Device Authorization Grant)
   - Callback URLs: `http://localhost/oauth/callback` (placeholder - not used with Device Flow)
   - Logout URLs: `http://localhost/logout` (placeholder - not used)
3. Save your Client ID

**Note:** Yoto uses OAuth2 Device Flow which doesn't require callback/logout URLs. The registration form may ask for them, but use localhost placeholders - they won't be called. Device Flow authentication doesn't redirect to your application.
```

## Development Workflow: CPWTR

**CPWTR** stands for: **Commit, Push, Wait, Test, Repeat**

This is the standard development cycle when working with Railway deployments:

```bash
# 0. UPDATE VERSION - Bump the version in config.py
# Edit yoto_smart_stream/config.py and update app_version
# Example: app_version: str = "0.2.1"

# 1. COMMIT - Stage and commit your changes (including version bump)
git add .
git commit -m "Add feature X - bump to v0.2.1"

# 2. PUSH - Push to GitHub
git push origin feature-branch

# 3. WAIT - Wait for Railway to build and deploy
# Railway automatically deploys when:
# - PR is opened (PR Environments)
# - Commits are pushed to main (Production)
# - Commits are pushed to tracked branches
# in a sleep/check loop:
# Use MCP server to check deployment status if available
# Verify using the version
# If it's taking forever consider a failed deployment and check that

# 4. TEST - Test the deployed changes
curl https://yoto-smart-stream-pr-{number}.up.railway.app/health
# Verify version in response: "version": "0.2.1"
# Or access via browser, test API endpoints, etc.

# 5. REPEAT - Make adjustments and start again
# If tests fail, fix code locally and repeat: version → commit → push → wait → test
```

**Tips for efficient CPWTR:**
- Monitor deployments in real-time: `railway logs --follow`
- Check deployment status: `railway deployments list --json`
- Test locally before pushing when possible
- Use Railway's healthcheck endpoint to verify deployment success
- Keep PR commits focused to reduce test cycles

### Railway Environment Variables

Set environment-specific variables in Railway:

```bash
# Production environment (via Railway CLI or GitHub Actions)
railway variables set YOTO_CLIENT_ID="your_client_id" -e production
railway variables set DATABASE_URL='${{Postgres.DATABASE_URL}}' -e production

# In GitHub Actions: use secrets syntax
# railway variables set YOTO_CLIENT_ID="${{ secrets.YOTO_CLIENT_ID }}" -e production

# Staging environment
railway variables set YOTO_CLIENT_ID="your_client_id" -e staging
railway variables set DEBUG=true -e staging
```

### Variable Hierarchy

1. **GitHub Secrets** - For CI/CD automation (RAILWAY_TOKEN, YOTO_CLIENT_ID)
2. **Railway Shared Variables** - Common across environments (LOG_LEVEL, REGION)
3. **Railway Environment Variables** - Per environment (DATABASE_URL, DEBUG)
4. **Railway Service Variables** - Per service in environment (PORT, WORKERS)

## Environment Configuration Strategy

### Development Workflow

```bash
# Local development - use .env file (never commit)
YOTO_CLIENT_ID=dev_client_id
YOTO_CLIENT_SECRET=dev_secret

# GitHub Actions - access GitHub Secrets
${{ secrets.YOTO_CLIENT_ID }}

# Railway deployment - use Railway variables
railway variables get YOTO_CLIENT_ID -e production
```

### Accessing Secrets in Code

```python
# main.py - FastAPI application
import os

# Railway automatically loads environment variables
YOTO_CLIENT_ID = os.getenv("YOTO_CLIENT_ID")
YOTO_CLIENT_SECRET = os.getenv("YOTO_CLIENT_SECRET")
DATABASE_URL = os.getenv("DATABASE_URL")

if not YOTO_CLIENT_ID:
    raise ValueError("YOTO_CLIENT_ID environment variable is required")
```

## Deployment Workflow

### Automated Deployments

1. **Commit to branch** → Railway detects change
2. **Build starts** → Docker build or Nixpacks detection
3. **Deploy** → New deployment goes live
4. **Health check** → Railway verifies service is healthy
5. **Rollback available** → Previous deployment kept for quick rollback

### Manual Deployments

```bash
# Deploy current directory to specific environment
railway up -e production

# Deploy with specific service
railway up -s web -e staging

# Redeploy last successful build
railway redeploy -e production
```

## Database Management

### PostgreSQL Setup

```bash
# Add PostgreSQL to project
railway add --plugin postgresql

# Access database credentials
railway variables -e production | grep DATABASE_URL

# Connect to database
railway connect postgres -e production

# Run migrations
railway run -e production python manage.py migrate
```

### Backup Strategy

- Railway provides automatic daily backups for databases
- For critical production data, implement application-level backups
- Use `pg_dump` for manual backups before major migrations

## Monitoring & Observability

### Built-in Features

- **Logs**: Real-time log streaming via dashboard or CLI
- **Metrics**: CPU, memory, network usage per service
- **Deployments**: History of all deployments with rollback capability

### Log Access

```bash
# Stream logs from production
railway logs -e production

# Follow logs with filter
railway logs -e production --filter "ERROR"

# View logs for specific service
railway logs -s web -e production
```

## Best Practices

### ✅ DO:

- Store sensitive credentials in GitHub Secrets
- Use environment-specific configurations in Railway
- Implement health check endpoints
- Set up automatic deployments for main branches
- Use Railway's reference variables (`${{Postgres.DATABASE_URL}}`)
- Monitor deployment logs after each deploy
- Set resource limits appropriately
- Use Railway CLI for automation scripts
- Document environment setup in repository
- Rotate secrets regularly

### ❌ DON'T:

- Commit secrets to version control (use .env.example as template)
- Use production credentials in development
- Skip health check endpoints
- Deploy directly to production without staging
- Ignore deployment failures
- Over-provision resources unnecessarily
- Hardcode URLs or credentials
- Share production database between environments
- Store secrets in code comments or documentation

## Cost Optimization

### Resource Management

1. **Right-size your services** - Start small, scale based on metrics
2. **Use development environments wisely** - Sleep/destroy unused environments
3. **Leverage free tier** - Railway provides $5/month free credits
4. **Monitor usage** - Set up billing alerts
5. **Clean up old deployments** - Remove unused services and environments

### Scaling Strategy

```bash
# Horizontal scaling (multiple replicas)
railway scale replicas=3 -s web -e production

# Vertical scaling (increase resources)
# Adjust via Railway dashboard or railway.json
```

## Python/FastAPI Specific Configuration

### Recommended Setup

```python
# main.py - FastAPI application
from fastapi import FastAPI
import os

app = FastAPI()

# Railway provides PORT environment variable
PORT = int(os.getenv("PORT", 8000))

@app.get("/health")
async def health_check():
    """Health check endpoint for Railway"""
    return {"status": "healthy"}

if __name__ == "__main__":
    import uvicorn
    uvicorn.run(app, host="0.0.0.0", port=PORT)
```

### Deployment Configuration

```toml
# railway.toml (optional, but recommended)
[build]
builder = "NIXPACKS"
buildCommand = "pip install -r requirements.txt"

[deploy]
startCommand = "uvicorn main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port $PORT"
healthcheckPath = "/health"
healthcheckTimeout = 100
restartPolicyType = "ON_FAILURE"
restartPolicyMaxRetries = 10
```

## Integration with CI/CD

### GitHub Actions Integration

```yaml
# .github/workflows/deploy.yml
name: Deploy to Railway

on:
  push:
    branches: [main, develop]
  pull_request:
    branches: [main]

jobs:
  deploy:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3
      
      - name: Install Railway CLI
        run: npm i -g @railway/cli
        
      - name: Deploy to Railway
        run: railway up -e ${{ github.ref == 'refs/heads/main' && 'production' || 'staging' }}
        env:
          RAILWAY_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.RAILWAY_TOKEN }}
          
      - name: Set Railway Variables
        run: |
          railway variables set YOTO_CLIENT_ID="${{ secrets.YOTO_CLIENT_ID }}" -e production
          railway variables set YOTO_CLIENT_SECRET="${{ secrets.YOTO_CLIENT_SECRET }}" -e production
        env:
          RAILWAY_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.RAILWAY_TOKEN }}
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**Deployment Fails**
- Check build logs: `railway logs -e production`
- Verify Python version compatibility
- Ensure all dependencies in requirements.txt

**Database Connection Issues**
- Verify DATABASE_URL variable is set
- Check database service is running
- Confirm network connectivity between services

**Environment Variables Not Loading**
- Verify variables are set in correct environment
- Check for typos in variable names
- Ensure service is redeployed after variable changes

**Secrets Not Accessible**
- Verify GitHub Secrets are created in repository settings
- Check workflow has correct permissions
- Ensure Railway variables are synced from GitHub

**High Costs**
- Review resource usage in dashboard
- Scale down or remove unused environments
- Check for runaway processes or memory leaks

## Security Considerations

1. **Never commit credentials** - Use GitHub Secrets and Railway variables
2. **Rotate secrets regularly** - Especially API keys and tokens (YOTO_CLIENT_ID)
3. **Use least privilege** - Limit access to production environments
4. **Enable 2FA** - For Railway and GitHub account access
5. **Audit access** - Review team member permissions periodically
6. **Network security** - Use private networking for service-to-service communication
7. **Backup regularly** - Especially before major changes
8. **Separate secrets** - Use different credentials for dev/staging/production when possible

## Team Workflow

### Development Process

1. **Create feature branch** → Automatic PR environment spins up
2. **Develop & test** → Use PR environment for testing (with dev credentials)
3. **Merge to develop** → Deploys to staging environment
4. **QA & validation** → Test on staging (with staging credentials)
5. **Merge to main** → Deploys to production (with production credentials)
6. **Monitor** → Watch logs and metrics

### Environment Lifecycle

```bash
# Development branches
feature/add-auth → pr-123 environment (auto-created)
feature/new-ui → pr-124 environment (auto-created)

# Long-lived branches
develop → staging environment (persistent)
main → production environment (persistent)

# Cleanup
# PR environments destroyed after merge/close
# Manual cleanup: railway down -e pr-123
```

## Resources

- **Railway Documentation**: https://docs.railway.app/
- **Railway Templates**: https://railway.app/templates
- **Railway Discord**: https://discord.gg/railway
- **Railway Blog**: https://blog.railway.app/
- **Railway Status**: https://status.railway.app/
- **Railway CLI**: https://docs.railway.app/reference/cli
- **GitHub Secrets**: https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets

## Migration Guides

### From Heroku to Railway

- Railway offers similar workflow with better DX
- Environment variables map 1:1
- Database migration via `pg_dump` and `pg_restore`
- Update deployment scripts to use Railway CLI

### From Docker Compose to Railway

- Convert services to Railway services
- Map environment variables
- Set up service dependencies
- Configure networking

---

**When managing Railway deployments:**
1. Review the relevant reference documentation in the `reference/` folder
2. Set up GitHub Secrets for CI/CD automation (RAILWAY_TOKEN, YOTO_CLIENT_ID)
3. Follow the multi-environment patterns and best practices
4. Use Railway CLI for automation
5. Monitor deployments and costs regularly
6. Document your setup for team members
